INTRODUCTION
During the course of your MBA program, you developed a number of competencies that are meaningful in the workplace. Reflecting on your competencies, how they helped during your program and the business simulation, and how they will support your career as you move forward is an appropriate transitional activity to undertake before you engage in your career and personal brand management.

 

Career and personal brand management are significant components of successful career growth and readiness. Career management is an ongoing, systematic process that involves thoughtful self-assessment, career exploration, planning, goal setting, and networking.

 

For this task, you will create a SMART career goal; enhance or develop a resume that markets your professional, academic, volunteer, and leadership experiences; and build a LinkedIn profile that showcases your various academic and professional skills and accomplishments. You will need to gather, upload and provide reflection on three academic or professional artifacts that demonstrate your competencies as they align with your SMART career goal.

 

Note: Task 1 and Task 2 must be completed prior to submitting Task 3. 

REQUIREMENTS
Your submission must be your original work. No more than a combined total of 30% of the submission and no more than a 10% match to any one individual source can be directly quoted or closely paraphrased from sources, even if cited correctly. The originality report that is provided when you submit your task can be used as a guide.

 You must use the rubric to direct the creation of your submission because it provides detailed criteria that will be used to evaluate your work. Each requirement below may be evaluated by more than one rubric aspect. The rubric aspect titles may contain hyperlinks to relevant portions of the course.





A.  Explain how three competencies you developed throughout your MBA program facilitated your performance in the business simulation completed for Task 1 and Task 2.
 

Note: Course competencies can be found within each course.
 

1.  Explain how each of these competencies would help you in the future as part of a business career.
 

B.  Create a specific, measurable, achievable, relevant, and timely (SMART) career goal.
 

Note: Your SMART career goal should be based on the combination of your self-assessment of your interests, skills and strengths, and overall career research. You are encouraged to use the attached “Career Planning Guide” as a resource in creating your SMART career goal.
 

C.  Update and attach your resume (suggested length of 1–2 pages) as a separate word processing document, including each of the following:

•  personal information (e.g., name, contact information)

•  education

•  work experience

•  skills
 

Note: You may contact the career services department with the “WGU Career and Professional Development” web link to assist with your resume. Refer to the attached “Sample Resume Template” and “Resume Building Guidelines” for additional guidance while creating your resume.
 

D.  Develop or update your LinkedIn profile to effectively market your professional brand and provide a copy of your LinkedIn profile as a PDF attachment (refer to the “LinkedIn PDF Instructions” web link). Your LinkedIn profile should have completed sections, including each of the following:

•  customized URL

•  summary

•  experience

•  education
 

Note: You may refer to the attached “Professional Branding Worksheet” and “LinkedIn User Guide” as you develop or update your profile. You may also contact career services with the “WGU Career and Professional Development” web link to provide a LinkedIn profile review.
 

E.  Upload three academic or professional artifacts (e.g., professional certifications, professional presentations, professional awards/recognitions, professional memberships) as PDF attachments to demonstrate the various competencies you have learned throughout your academic or employment journey(s).

1. Explain why you chose each artifact, what competencies the artifacts demonstrate, and how the artifacts align to your career goals.
 

Note: A career portfolio is a visual representation of an individual’s abilities, skills, capabilities, knowledge, qualities - and it represents your potential to prospective employers. In short, it allows you to show and not just tell. A career portfolio should be personal and contain critical information. Items or artifacts that should be incorporated include (but are not limited to) personal information, evaluations, sample work, professional certifications, professional presentations, professional awards/recognitions, professional memberships, and acknowledgments.
 

F.  Acknowledge sources, using in-text citations and references, for content that is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized.
 

G.  Demonstrate professional communication in the content and presentation of your submission.
