INTRODUCTION
After completing the business simulation at a competent level in Task 1, you will create a written report (see attached “Stockholder Report Template” for recommended page lengths) for stockholders and the board of directors to review. Justify your decisions throughout the simulation and evaluate the current state of the business for all functional areas.

REQUIREMENTS
Your submission must be your original work. No more than a combined total of 30% of the submission and no more than a 10% match to any one individual source can be directly quoted or closely paraphrased from sources, even if cited correctly. The originality report that is provided when you submit your task can be used as a guide.

 You must use the rubric to direct the creation of your submission because it provides detailed criteria that will be used to evaluate your work. Each requirement below may be evaluated by more than one rubric aspect. The rubric aspect titles may contain hyperlinks to relevant portions of the course.



Balanced Scorecard

A.  Export the following reports from the simulation and submit them as attachments:

•  the cumulative balance scorecard with an overall positive cumulative total performance score

•  the conscious scorecard report



Stockholder Report

B.  Create a written stockholder report for the board of directors and stockholders, using the attached “Stockholder Report Template,” in which you do the following:

1.  Analyze how four corporate strategic thrusts that you selected within the simulation drove two of your financial decisions and two of your nonfinancial decisions.

2.  Reflect on the decisions that were made during the last three quarters of the simulation by doing the following:
 

Note: Support for your reflection may include graphs and other data.
 

a.  Explain two decisions that you would change and why.

b.  Explain two decisions that had a positive effect and how, including specific examples.
 

C.  Discuss your company’s financial projections and valuation in relation to the company’s quarter six (Q6) statement of cash flow, balance sheet, income statement (result found in Q7 tab), and Q6 stock history report by doing the following:

1.  Calculate a valuation of the company and explain the key components of how you came to that valuation.

2.  Calculate the projected financial return on investment (ROI) at end of quarter six (Q6) and explain the effects that this return would have for an investor.
 

Note: You should include, within your valuation, any financial data that you use to justify your valuation, such as statement of cash flows, balance sheet, income statement, and stock history report, which can all be exported from within the simulation. You may copy and paste the information directly into the stockholder report template.
 

Business Analysis

D.  Analyze the overall performance of the business compared to the financial reports from the simulation by doing the following:
 

Note: Use quarters four, five, and six when analyzing performance. The analysis should include definitions of the financial statistics that occurred for these three quarters. Refer to the simulation reports, including the balanced scorecard and conscious scorecard for the required data.
 

1.  Analyze the effect on overall financial performance of one ratio from each of the following categories, including the performance measures found within the industry financial ratios tab within the simulation:

•  liquidity ratios

•  activity ratios

•  leverage ratios

•  profitability ratios

2.  Analyze the beginning and ending cash positions from your statement of cash flows from quarter seven (Q7) for each of the following:

•  cash flow from operating activities

•  cash flow from investing activities

•  cash flow from financing activities

3.  Explain how three decisions that you made and are shown on your conscious scorecard affected the company’s performance.

 

E.  Acknowledge sources, using in-text citations and references, for content that is quoted, paraphrased, or summarized.
 

F.  Demonstrate professional communication in the content and presentation of your submission.
